---
title: 'cdcam: Cambridge Digital Communications Assessment Model'
tags:
  - python
  - mobile telecommunications
  - simulation
authors:
  - name: Edward J. Oughton
    orcid: 0000-0002-2766-008X
    affiliation:  "1, 2"
  - name: Tom Russell
    orcid: 0000-0002-0081-400X
    affiliation: 1
affiliations:
  - name: Environmental Change Institute, University of Oxford
    index: 1
  - name: Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge
    index: 2
date: 15 October 2019
bibliography: paper.bib
---


# Submission notes

See [guidelines](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submitting.html)

Your paper should include:
- [x] A list of the authors of the software and their affiliations, using the correct format
- [x] A summary describing the high-level functionality and purpose of the software for a
  diverse, non-specialist audience.
- [x] A clear Statement of Need that illustrates the research purpose of the software.
- [x] A list of key references, including to other software addressing related needs.
- [x] Mention (if applicable) of any past or ongoing research projects using the software and
  recent scholarly publications enabled by it.
- [x] Acknowledgement of any financial support.


# Summary

People and machines communicate digitally - so much that digital connectivity may be
considered to be an essential infrastructure service. The physical network infrastructure of
cell towers provides coverage and capacity, at some costs of installation and maintenance to
the mobile network operators who provide the service. Data traffic has grown exponentially and
future projections vary considerably (@Oughton:2018a). Successive generations of mobile
telecommunications technology have increased rates of data transmission and reduced latency,
with rollout of new infrastructure required to provide each new generation.

The Cambridge Digital Communications Assessment Model (`cdcam`), is a decision-support model
which quantifies the performance of national digital infrastructure strategies for mobile
digital communications. `cdcam` models the performance of 4G and 5G technologies as they may be
rolled out over space and time, under scenarios of future change in population and demand for
data.

- Any more detail on high-level functionality and purpose goes here...
- representation of regions/zones
- representation of technology/strategy
- use of lookup tables (refer to pysim5g or similar?)

For example, `cdcam` has been used to test the cost, coverage and rollout implications of 5G
infrastructure in Britain (@Oughton:2018b) and the Netherlands (@Oughton:2019).

- Could expand briefly on how `cdcam` enabled this research here...

The model is one of several infrastructure simulation models being used in ongoing research as
part of the [Mistral](https://www.itrc.org.uk/) project to analyse national infrastructure
systems-of-systems.

- Could expand on software addressing related needs here...
- connected by a loose model coupling library, `smif` (@smif)
- scenarios of population change can be generated by `simim` (@simim)


# Acknowledgements

We would like to acknowledge the funding which has enabled development of cdcam, from the EPSRC
via (i) the Infrastructure Transitions Research Consortium Mistral project (EP/N017064/1) and
(ii) the UK's Digital Catapult Researcher in Residence programme.


# References
